README.md, before:

# Quilt Demo Blueprint

This repository contains the blueprint needed to run the Quilt MEAN stack
demo.  We've broken the blueprint into two different files:

- `todo_app.js`: This file exports a constructor `TodoApp` that creates a
deployable object that represents a MEAN stack application.  Deploying a
`TodoApp` instance deploys a repliated Node.js application, an HAProxy
service to load balance over the Node.js application, and a replicated
MongoDB service to use to store the application's data.
`todo_app.js` builds on other, existing Quilt
blueprints, including a blueprint describing how to run MongoDB, a blueprint
for Node.js, and a blueprint for HAProxy. Because those existing blueprints
describe how to run those respective services, all `mean.js` needs to do is to
hook the services together (e.g., by opening a connection between MongoDB
and the Node.js application).
- `main.js`: This file initializes a set of Amazon EC2 instances, and then
uses the TodoApp constructor to deploy the example Node.js application (a
TODO app) on those instances.
While this particular file describes virtual machines on Amazon
EC2, an infrastructure can describe physical or virtual machines
on any cloud provider (Quilt currently supports GCE, AWS, Digital Ocean,
and Vagrant is experimental).

## Running the demo code

### Installing and Configuring Quilt

If you've never used Quilt before, you'll need to install and configure
Quilt.  First, you'll need to install Node.js, which
Quilt relies on to run JavaScript blueprints.  The process for installing
Node.js is well documented on the
[Node.js website](https://nodejs.org/en/download/). One easy way to install
Node.js is using Homebrew:

```console
$ brew install node
```

Next, you'll need to install Quilt using Node's package manager:

```console
$ npm install -g @quilt/install
```

To allow Quilt to launch Amazon EC2 instances, you need to use configure AWS.
The easiest way to do this is by setting environment variables:

```console
$ export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<your access key id>
$ export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<your secret access key>
```

You can also use any of the mechanisms allowed by the AWS CLI, which
are described in more detail in
[Amazon's documentation](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-getting-started.html).

At this point, Quilt is installed, and you can use it to write your own
blueprint. For more information about getting started with Quilt, check out
the [Getting Started Guide](http://docs.quilt.io/#getting-started).

### Installing and running the demo

To run the demo blueprint, you'll also need to download and
install the demo code:

```console
$ git clone https://github.com/quilt/demos.git
$ cd demos
$ npm install
```

Now you're ready to launch the demo! Quilt relies on a long-running
daemon (similar to the Docker daemon, for folks familiar with Docker) to keep
track of running Quilt deployments, so start by launching the daemon:

```console
$ quilt daemon
```

Now, in a new terminal window, run the blueprint:

```console
$ quilt run ./mean.js
```

`quilt run` will return immediately because it delegates to the Quilt daemon.
If you return to the terminal window running the Quilt daemon, you'll see that
Quilt is making some progress towards getting the demo Node.js application up
and running.  It will take Quilt a few minutes to launch VMs on EC2 and then
configure the relevant containers on those VMs. While you wait, you can check
the progress with:

```console
$ quilt ps
```

which lists running containers and machines. The last column of the `quilt ps`
output shows the public IP address of each container. Once the application is
up and running, you can view it using the public IP address of any of the
HAProxy instances.

Once you're finished experimenting with this demo, don't forget to shut down
the instances that are running! You can stop all running instances with
`quilt stop`:

```console
$ quilt stop
```

At this point, if you're done using Quilt, you can also kill the daemon
process.

## Next steps

If you're interested in using Quilt to launch other applications, check out our
[Getting Started Guide](http://docs.quilt.io/#getting-started).
If you're interested in writing your own blueprints, take a look at our
[Blueprint Writer's Guide](http://docs.quilt.io/#blueprint-writers-guide).

## Feedback

If you run into any hiccups or have feedback about using Quilt, we'd love to
hear from you! Shoot us an email at [dev@quilt.io](mailto:dev@quilt.io).

Commit message:

readme: Document installing Quilt as root

README.md, after:

# Quilt Demo Blueprint

This repository contains the blueprint needed to run the Quilt MEAN stack
demo.  We've broken the blueprint into two different files:

- `todo_app.js`: This file exports a constructor `TodoApp` that creates a
deployable object that represents a MEAN stack application.  Deploying a
`TodoApp` instance deploys a repliated Node.js application, an HAProxy
service to load balance over the Node.js application, and a replicated
MongoDB service to use to store the application's data.
`todo_app.js` builds on other, existing Quilt
blueprints, including a blueprint describing how to run MongoDB, a blueprint
for Node.js, and a blueprint for HAProxy. Because those existing blueprints
describe how to run those respective services, all `mean.js` needs to do is to
hook the services together (e.g., by opening a connection between MongoDB
and the Node.js application).
- `main.js`: This file initializes a set of Amazon EC2 instances, and then
uses the TodoApp constructor to deploy the example Node.js application (a
TODO app) on those instances.
While this particular file describes virtual machines on Amazon
EC2, an infrastructure can describe physical or virtual machines
on any cloud provider (Quilt currently supports GCE, AWS, Digital Ocean,
and Vagrant is experimental).

## Running the demo code

### Installing and Configuring Quilt

If you've never used Quilt before, you'll need to install and configure
Quilt.  First, you'll need to install Node.js, which
Quilt relies on to run JavaScript blueprints.  The process for installing
Node.js is well documented on the
[Node.js website](https://nodejs.org/en/download/). One easy way to install
Node.js is using Homebrew:

```console
$ brew install node
```

Next, you'll need to install Quilt using Node's package manager:

```console
$ npm install -g @quilt/install
```

Note that if installing as root, the `--unsafe-perm` flag is required:
```console
$ sudo npm install -g @quilt/install --unsafe-perm
```

To allow Quilt to launch Amazon EC2 instances, you need to use configure AWS.
The easiest way to do this is by setting environment variables:

```console
$ export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<your access key id>
$ export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<your secret access key>
```

You can also use any of the mechanisms allowed by the AWS CLI, which
are described in more detail in
[Amazon's documentation](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-getting-started.html).

At this point, Quilt is installed, and you can use it to write your own
blueprint. For more information about getting started with Quilt, check out
the [Getting Started Guide](http://docs.quilt.io/#getting-started).

### Installing and running the demo

To run the demo blueprint, you'll also need to download and
install the demo code:

```console
$ git clone https://github.com/quilt/demos.git
$ cd demos
$ npm install
```

Now you're ready to launch the demo! Quilt relies on a long-running
daemon (similar to the Docker daemon, for folks familiar with Docker) to keep
track of running Quilt deployments, so start by launching the daemon:

```console
$ quilt daemon
```

Now, in a new terminal window, run the blueprint:

```console
$ quilt run ./mean.js
```

`quilt run` will return immediately because it delegates to the Quilt daemon.
If you return to the terminal window running the Quilt daemon, you'll see that
Quilt is making some progress towards getting the demo Node.js application up
and running.  It will take Quilt a few minutes to launch VMs on EC2 and then
configure the relevant containers on those VMs. While you wait, you can check
the progress with:

```console
$ quilt ps
```

which lists running containers and machines. The last column of the `quilt ps`
output shows the public IP address of each container. Once the application is
up and running, you can view it using the public IP address of any of the
HAProxy instances.

Once you're finished experimenting with this demo, don't forget to shut down
the instances that are running! You can stop all running instances with
`quilt stop`:

```console
$ quilt stop
```

At this point, if you're done using Quilt, you can also kill the daemon
process.

## Next steps

If you're interested in using Quilt to launch other applications, check out our
[Getting Started Guide](http://docs.quilt.io/#getting-started).
If you're interested in writing your own blueprints, take a look at our
[Blueprint Writer's Guide](http://docs.quilt.io/#blueprint-writers-guide).

## Feedback

If you run into any hiccups or have feedback about using Quilt, we'd love to
hear from you! Shoot us an email at [dev@quilt.io](mailto:dev@quilt.io).
